The last thing I wanna talk about in
terms of fundamentals is what to animate.
So with CSS, you could actually
animate a lot of things.
So, for example, let's say that I wanted
to animate the font size of this h1.
So let's say that this is font size,
probably 2rem or something like that.
Let's say I wanted to make it really big.
And so when I hover over it, and
this is a good SAS lesson, too, if you
put the ampersand, it's going to basically
copy this over and put that over here.
So if I do hover and I do font-size,
something big, like 5vw or
something like that.
That's not very big,
[LAUGH] let's do it like 10vw, just so
you could see that it is
going from small to bigger.
And again, if you don't want to use SCSS,
this is exactly the same as doing this.
So, When you hover over it,
the font size is going to be big.
Now, let's add a transition.
And so again, this is just an example,
we're gonna be talking about
this in the next lesson.
But, When I hover over it, the font
size does get a little bit bigger.
Now, the problem with this, which it
might not seem like a problem, but
it definitely does become a problem
when you had a web app or
a complex website that has
a ton of different elements and
those elements are all nested in
each other and everything like that.
The problem is that these kinds of
animations actually become expensive.
And so by expensive,
I mean they trigger what's called layouts.
And so you could look at more
information on csstriggers.com.
But the main idea is that
when you're animating,
there's two different things that
are doing the animation in CSS.
There is the GPU, which is the graphics
processing unit, and the CPU,
which is the, I just say CPU, computer
processing unit, something like that.
And so the GPU, when you hand things
off to the GPU, you're basically
giving it a surface in which it could do
a lot of things in a really fast way,
which is to transform it and
to change the opacity.
Because think about having it on
a really stretchy piece of paper.
With that paper, you don't care about
any other elements on the website.
You could stretch it, you can make
it longer, you could shrink it,
you could skew it, you could rotate it,
you could do all sorts of things with it.
You could even animate it in 3D.
And so what's performance about this and
what the GPU is really good at
is because it's on its own layer, we don't
need to care about the other elements.
So we don't need to do
the computation of if this moves,
then these other elements should move.
So again, the GPU is really good at that.
And these are going to be where your
most performant animations are.
And by performance I mean getting
to 60 frames per second or
as close to 60 frames
per second as possible.
Now when we do color in background,
now we're not talking to the GPU.
We're talking to the browser,
or, well, I mean,
we're always talking to the browser but
we're more talking to the CPU.
Because it needs to actually
change the color of something or
change the background,
just replace it with something else and
calculate the transitions between,
for example, two different colors.
Now, while this is not going to trigger
layout and it's not going to say,
cuz when you change the color of
something, you're not moving anything.
So we're not having to do
any of those computations,
instead we're just changing the color,
that triggers paint.
And so triggering paints, you could
still get to 60 frames per second, but
if you're triggering paints
on a lot of elements,
that could actually be
computationally expensive.
So whereas transforms and
opacity are really performance, color and
background is something that of course,
you can animate them, but
you want to be really
careful about animating them.
Now the things where you want to
avoid animating as much as possible,
are things that trigger layout.
And so these are things like height,
width, left, right, margin,
padding, even border sizes.
Those things are going
to trigger layout and
be the most computationally expensive for
the CPU to animate.
And the reason is because when you
are changing one of these properties,
the browser has to reflow all
the elements that are surrounding it, and
maybe even more elements like the parents.
And so
now you're not just animating one thing.
You also have to think about how
everything else is positioned in
the browser.
So it's sort of like a domino effect where
if you change the margin on one elements
that affects another elements, which could
affect the parents, which could affect its
neighboring elements, which could affect
their parents, and it just becomes a mess.
So we're gonna be talking about that too,
we're basically only
going to be using transform opacity,
and color, and background.
So again, try to avoid animating height,
width, left, and right.
Now the last thing I wanna say about
this is I talked about 60 frames per
second as a goal.
And so 60 frames per second seems
like a really arbitrary number.
And some of you might be saying, hey,
I have games that play at 30 frames per
second and they're pretty snappy, or
I have a VR headset that's
100 frames per second.
So what is so
special about 60 frames per second?
And so what's special about is that,
that is the monitor refresh rate.
So the monitor is refreshing every,
it comes out to 16.667 milliseconds,
and so that is your window where it's
basically a frame of an animation.
So if you remember those old films,
those big film strips, you could
think of every 16.667 milliseconds
as one panel of those film strips.
So what happens if you miss that window
because something is taking too long to
animate, or to compute for the animation,
is that it's going to exceed that
budget of 16.67 milliseconds and
bleed over into the next animation frame.
And now you're going to have multiple
animation frames with the same animation.
And so the result to the user is what's
called jank, where it doesn't feel smooth,
it feels like it's stopping.
And then it's going back to where it
needs to be and then stopping, and
it just feels very laggy.
It's not a very pleasant user experience.
So that is all the fundamentals
I wanted to talk about.
Are there any questions?
>> You got more of a comment, I guess.
But-
>> Yeah.
>> I'm glad you bring this up because
I think with a lot of animations,
you don't really think about the end
performance, you try and make it cool.
And that's taxing on the page.
And with things coming up
like Google performance,
your Lighthouse score goes way down with
your repaints and your reshifts, and
then your page drops
down in that SEO listing.
Which is not something that every
developer thinks about when they're making
a feature or animating something.
So I'm glad you bring that up because
it's not always on the forefront of every
developer in my experience,
>> Right, yeah, that's a really good
point, especially if you want your website
to get all of those green rings for
Lighthouse insights, where,
You could generate a report,
I actually don't know how well
this is going to perform.
But, [LAUGH] it does become a factor,
where if you're doing a lot of layout
animations and things like that,
then it is going to affect your score.
So you see here we have a 99
performance and other things.
SEO, I don't care about because we're on
local host we don't really want anyone to
discover this.
But yeah,
that is an important factor, yes.
>> What if you would use
transform to scale size?
>> So again, using transform,
it's going to be on the GPU,
not the CPU, and so it's actually
going to be really performant.
And so by scaling size,
there's two different things you could do,
you could scale the x which
is how wide it is, and
you could scale the y
which is how tall it is.
And so, again, with that metaphor
of considering your elements on
a piece of paper that's really stretchy.
That's really performant, because you're
not affecting any other elements.
So just think of a stretchy paper.
You can move it this way, this way,
rotate it, do whatever you want with it.